# Predicting Ammonia Plume Presence at Feedlots in the San Joaquin Valley from VSWIR Spectroscopy of the Land Surface
As part of NASA's SARP 2024 program, I had the oppourtunity to study the remote sensing of feedlot ammonia emissions under the guidance of Dr. Dan Sousa and Megan Ward-Baranyay. This repository holds the code and essential data for my study, in which I correlated HyTES-detected plume presence with feedlot surface reflectance values from EMIT. 

The code folder holds the bulk of this project. The extraction scripts in this folder gneraly take geotiffs and geopackages of polygons and extract the raster stats from the geotiff for each polygon. The regresions script is used to run random forest and partial least squares regressors and classifiers on the resulting data, and the figure geenration script assists in presenting this data. The data folder holds geopkg and csv files from ArcGIS that contain information about the feedlot location (identified in NAIP and EMIT imagery) and emissions (identified in HyTES L3 trace gas products). It also holds raster information files that summarize spectral statistics of each feedlot, generated by the extraction scripts. The HyTES extraction code is specifically for converting HyTES data files (hdf5, hdr, and geo.dat) into geotiffs and was based entirely on code written by Dr. Madeleine Pascolini-Campbell for working with L2 products and kindly provided to me by Quentin Dehaene. I modified it to process batches of L3 gas data. Code in the Other folder was not used for the final project but was written for tangents. 

All code is rough and generally uncommented at this time, use with care. 

Aside from the hytesinputs and writegeotiff files which were written by Dr. Madeleine Pascolini-Campbell, all code is my own, though many portions were initially generated by ChatGPT. Many thanks to Disha Sardana, Megan Ward-Baranyay, and Dan Sousa for their advice and assistance. 
